README.md, before:

<!--
```text
_______
\  ___ `'.                    .          .--.
 ' |--.\  \                 .'|          |__|
 | |    \  '              .'  |          .--.
 | |     |  '     __     <    |          |  |     __
 | |     |  |  .:--.'.    |   | ____     |  |  .:--.'.
 | |     ' .' / |   \ |   |   | \ .'     |  | / |   \ |
 | |___.' /'  `" __ | |   |   |/  .      |  | `" __ | |
/_______.'/    .'.''| |   |    /\  \     |__|  .'.''| |
\_______|/    / /   | |_  |   |  \  \         / /   | |_
              \ \._,\ '/  '    \  \  \        \ \._,\ '/
               `--'  `"  '------'  '---'       `--'  `"
```
-->

<!-- canva logo url -> https://www.canva.com/design/DAGZAdY1d9c/YCHWZRD78H5j0CAWaaF6gw/edit -->
![1](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9348db35-f589-4dc4-9a03-24924d6d8f2d)


# Dakia is an API Gateway that’s Fully Programmable, Configurable, and Extensible!

**Dakia** is a powerful and flexible API Gateway designed for modern web applications.

## Limitations

- Works with only `UTF-8` character encoding
- Only round robin load balancing algorithm is supported for now
- Works with only IPv4 addresses, IPv6 is not supported as of now
- We use Mutex and RwLock at multiple places

## Features

- **Fully Programmable**: Tailor the API Gateway to your specific needs with custom plugins and middleware in multiple languages.
- **Configurable**: Easily manage API configurations using various formats like YAML, JSON, and HTTP API calls.
- **Extensible**: Add new functionality with support for custom middleware and plugins, written in any programming language (Rust, Java, C++, etc.).
- **Zero Downtime Upgrades**: Perform upgrades and restarts without affecting the availability of your services.
- **Dynamic Middleware**: Add, remove, or modify middleware on the fly without disrupting service.
- **Request and Response Management**: Modify requests before they reach the upstream or read/write responses to meet your application's needs.
- **Real-Time Configuration**: Modify your gateway configuration in real time with no downtime, using HTTP API calls.

Dakia ensures your services stay performant, reliable, and highly customizable, giving you full control.

## 📊 Progress Tracker

| Task                                                                               | Status      |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Configurable(Only yaml supported for now)                                          | Done ✅     |
| Virtual Host                                                                       | Done ✅     |
| Wild card host matching ([Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matching_wildcards)) | Done ✅     |
| Wild card route ([Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matching_wildcards))         | Done ✅     |
| Proxy                                                                              | Done ✅     |
| HTTP Protocol Suport                                                               | Done ✅     |
| [Upstream SSL support](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication)       | Done ✅     |
| Load Balancer                                                                      | In-Progress |
| Extension(Rust,Java, JavaScript)                                                   | Pending     |
| Middleware(Rust,Java, JavaScript)                                                  | Pending     |
| SSL Support                                                                        | Pending     |
| Certbot Integration                                                                | Pending     |
| Controller(API to manage dakia over REST)                                          | Pending     |
| Docker Image (Docker image to quicky play with dakia)                              | Pending     |
| Regex support in host and route pattern                                            | Pending     |
| TCP Protocol Support                                                               | Pending     |
| Dakia CLI                                                                          | Pending     |
| UDP Protocol Support                                                               | Pending     |
| Web Socket Protocol Support                                                        | Pending     |
| HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 Protocol Support                                                 | Pending     |
| gRPC Protocol Support                                                              | Pending     |
| gRPC Protocol Support                                                              | Pending     |

## How to run?

- Download the binary from https://github.com/ats1999/dakia/releases/tag/0.0.0
  > This binary file is not platform independent, in case you are using different platform then build from soure directly
- Execute the binary by typing `./dakia`
- Optionally create a config file `/etc/dakia/config.yaml` and write below yaml content into config file. Modify according to your need.

```yaml
daemon: true
error_log: "/var/log/dakia/error.log"
pid_file: "/var/run/dakia.pid"
upgrade_sock: "/var/run/dakia.sock"
user: "dakia_user"
group: "dakia_group"
threads: 4
work_stealing: true
grace_period_seconds: 60
graceful_shutdown_timeout_seconds: 30
upstream_keepalive_pool_size: 10
upstream_connect_offload_threadpools: 2
upstream_connect_offload_thread_per_pool: 5
upstream_debug_ssl_keylog: false
router_config:
  gateways:
    - bind_addresses:
        - host: "0.0.0.0"
          port: 8080
        - host: "0.0.0.0"
          port: 80
      downstreams:
        - host: "w3worker.net"
        - host: "localhost"
      backends:
        - name: "payment"
          default: false
          traffic_distribution_policy:
            selection_algorithm: "RoundRobin"
          upstreams:
            - address:
                host: "0.0.0.0"
                port: 3000
              tls: false
              sni: null
              weight: 1
            - address:
                host: "0.0.0.0"
                port: 3001
              tls: false
              sni: null
              weight: 2
        - name: "search"
          default: false
          upstreams:
            - address:
                host: "0.0.0.0"
                port: 3002
              tls: false
              sni: null
        - name: "content"
          default: true
          upstreams:
            - address:
                host: "0.0.0.0"
                port: 3003
              tls: false
              sni: null
      routes:
        - pattern: "*/pay"
          pattern_type: "Wildcard"
          backend: "payment"
        - pattern: "*/query"
          pattern_type: "Wildcard"
          backend: "payment"
        - pattern: "*"
          pattern_type: "Wildcard"
          backend: "content"
```

Commit message:

docs : added limitations, title, description

README.md, after:

<!--
```text
_______
\  ___ `'.                    .          .--.
 ' |--.\  \                 .'|          |__|
 | |    \  '              .'  |          .--.
 | |     |  '     __     <    |          |  |     __
 | |     |  |  .:--.'.    |   | ____     |  |  .:--.'.
 | |     ' .' / |   \ |   |   | \ .'     |  | / |   \ |
 | |___.' /'  `" __ | |   |   |/  .      |  | `" __ | |
/_______.'/    .'.''| |   |    /\  \     |__|  .'.''| |
\_______|/    / /   | |_  |   |  \  \         / /   | |_
              \ \._,\ '/  '    \  \  \        \ \._,\ '/
               `--'  `"  '------'  '---'       `--'  `"
```
-->

<!-- canva logo url -> https://www.canva.com/design/DAGZAdY1d9c/YCHWZRD78H5j0CAWaaF6gw/edit -->

![1](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9348db35-f589-4dc4-9a03-24924d6d8f2d)

# Dakia: The Developer-Centric API Gateway

**Dakia** is an advanced API Gateway designed with developers in mind, offering a fully configurable, extensible and programmable solution. With Dakia, developers are treated as first-class citizens, enabling them to customize and tailor the gateway to fit the unique needs...

## Limitations

> These limitations will be addressed over time as we continue to improve the dakia.

- Currently supports only `UTF-8` character encoding.
- Only the round-robin load balancing algorithm is available at the moment.
- IPv6 addresses are not supported at this time; only IPv4 is supported.

## Features

- **Fully Programmable**: Tailor the API Gateway to your specific needs with custom plugins and middleware in multiple languages.
- **Configurable**: Easily manage API configurations using various formats like YAML, JSON, and HTTP API calls.
- **Extensible**: Add new functionality with support for custom middleware and plugins, written in any programming language (Rust, Java, C++, etc.).
- **Zero Downtime Upgrades**: Perform upgrades and restarts without affecting the availability of your services.
- **Dynamic Middleware**: Add, remove, or modify middleware on the fly without disrupting service.
- **Request and Response Management**: Modify requests before they reach the upstream or read/write responses to meet your application's needs.
- **Real-Time Configuration**: Modify your gateway configuration in real time with no downtime, using HTTP API calls.

Dakia ensures your services stay performant, reliable, and highly customizable, giving you full control.

## 📊 Progress Tracker

| Task                                                                               | Status      |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Configurable(Only yaml supported for now)                                          | Done ✅     |
| Virtual Host                                                                       | Done ✅     |
| Wild card host matching ([Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matching_wildcards)) | Done ✅     |
| Wild card route ([Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matching_wildcards))         | Done ✅     |
| Proxy                                                                              | Done ✅     |
| HTTP Protocol Suport                                                               | Done ✅     |
| [Upstream SSL support](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication)       | Done ✅     |
| Load Balancer                                                                      | In-Progress |
| Extension(Rust,Java, JavaScript)                                                   | Pending     |
| Middleware(Rust,Java, JavaScript)                                                  | Pending     |
| SSL Support                                                                        | Pending     |
| Certbot Integration                                                                | Pending     |
| Controller(API to manage dakia over REST)                                          | Pending     |
| Docker Image (Docker image to quicky play with dakia)                              | Pending     |
| Regex support in host and route pattern                                            | Pending     |
| TCP Protocol Support                                                               | Pending     |
| Dakia CLI                                                                          | Pending     |
| UDP Protocol Support                                                               | Pending     |
| Web Socket Protocol Support                                                        | Pending     |
| HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 Protocol Support                                                 | Pending     |
| gRPC Protocol Support                                                              | Pending     |
| UDS Support                                                                        | Pending     |

## How to run?

- Download the binary from https://github.com/ats1999/dakia/releases/tag/0.0.0
  > This binary file is not platform independent, in case you are using different platform then build from soure directly
- Execute the binary by typing `./dakia`
- Optionally create a config file `/etc/dakia/config.yaml` and write below yaml content into config file. Modify according to your need.

```yaml
daemon: true
error_log: "/var/log/dakia/error.log"
pid_file: "/var/run/dakia.pid"
upgrade_sock: "/var/run/dakia.sock"
user: "dakia_user"
group: "dakia_group"
threads: 4
work_stealing: true
grace_period_seconds: 60
graceful_shutdown_timeout_seconds: 30
upstream_keepalive_pool_size: 10
upstream_connect_offload_threadpools: 2
upstream_connect_offload_thread_per_pool: 5
upstream_debug_ssl_keylog: false
router_config:
  gateways:
    - bind_addresses:
        - host: "0.0.0.0"
          port: 8080
        - host: "0.0.0.0"
          port: 80
      downstreams:
        - host: "w3worker.net"
        - host: "localhost"
      backends:
        - name: "payment"
          default: false
          traffic_distribution_policy:
            selection_algorithm: "RoundRobin"
          upstreams:
            - address:
                host: "0.0.0.0"
                port: 3000
              tls: false
              sni: null
              weight: 1
            - address:
                host: "0.0.0.0"
                port: 3001
              tls: false
              sni: null
              weight: 2
        - name: "search"
          default: false
          upstreams:
            - address:
                host: "0.0.0.0"
                port: 3002
              tls: false
              sni: null
        - name: "content"
          default: true
          upstreams:
            - address:
                host: "0.0.0.0"
                port: 3003
              tls: false
              sni: null
      routes:
        - pattern: "*/pay"
          pattern_type: "Wildcard"
          backend: "payment"
        - pattern: "*/query"
          pattern_type: "Wildcard"
          backend: "payment"
        - pattern: "*"
          pattern_type: "Wildcard"
          backend: "content"
```
